30 seconds and counting.
Astronauts report it feels
good, two minutes, 25 seconds.
Before 1988,
astronomers knew of only eight planets
in the entire universe,
those around the sun.
Today, we know of nearly 4,000.
These are called exoplanets,
and they orbit stars
outside of our solar system.
The majority are so distant
when they're not moving,
that little can be learned
about these exoplanets.
We do not know if any support life,
but over the years, advances
in telescope technology
have made it easier to detect them.
Launched in 2009, a space
telescope called Kepler
has been responsible for finding
the majority of the
exoplanets we know today.
By staring at a single patch of the sky,
it found them as they passed
in front of their stars.
But Kepler could only focus
on planets around lots of distant stars.
Kepler is now retired.
It's been replaced with a new telescope.
Liftoff,
the SpaceX Falcon Nine carrying TESS,
a planet hunting
spacecraft that will search
for new worlds beyond our solar system.
TESS, which can scan the entire sky,
and is equipped with four special cameras.
It will look at around
200,000 preselected stars
that are closer and among the
brightest as seen from Earth.
Over its two year mission,
TESS is expected to discover
hundreds of thousands of new planets.
Like Kepler, it will be able to detect
the proximity of planets to their stars,
providing astronomers with some
information about their possible climates.
Because TESS will find planets
that are comparatively near to Earth,
other, bigger telescopes will be able
to take a more detailed look,
including looking for the
presence of liquid water.
If there is alien life out there,
TESS could play an important
role in finding it.
Coming up next Thursday,
could space be the next frontier for war?